Azure Infrastructure
 Virtual Machine
 Virtual Network
 Storage Account
 Load Balancers
 Application Gateway
 DNS

Terraform(IaC)
 Variables
 Dependencies
 Modules
 Resource Deployment
 Terraform workflow
 Terraform commands
 State file
 Current State vs Desired State
 
AKS and Docker 
 Microservices and Containers
 AKS Deployment
 AKS Connectivity
 Deployment vs Replica Set
 Services: Load Balancer, Cluster IP
 Ingress Service ( nginx or other ingress service)
 Helm and Helm chart
 Storage Class, PVC and PV
 AKS upgrade

Azure DevOps
 Project and Organization
 Repo(Git, Git hub or Azure Repo)
 Build Pipelines
 Self Hosted vs MS Hosted
 Release Pipeline
 Platforms ( VM , Azure APP Service, AKS)


Always to ask the Job Description


1. You have to deploy an application on VM in a way so that it can achieve high availability and scalability
What solution will you propose?
 Ans: Load Balancer , Application Gateway to achieve High Availability and VMSS or Azure APP service for scalability

2. My application is accessible from the IP address but not from the Host name? However the application is only accessible with in company's network,
and I want it to be accessible from Internet also. Explain all the reasons behind it?

DNS
 Private DNS
 Public DNS

Asking about Platform to which app is hosted
are we using any load balancer services 

3. How do you deploy or provision or build or create resources in your environment?
Terraform, Azurerm provider

4. How do you manage state files
5. Implicit Dependency and Explicit Dependency
6. Commands related to Terraform

7. AKS 
  Architecture of AKS 
 a. You have deployed a POD, but it keeps crashing. How would you troubleshoot?
 b. A application deployed inside AKS is not accessible from internet? what are area we will look to fix this
 c. A node is not accessible? How would you troubleshoot?
 d. Difference between Load Balancer service and Ingress Service. Give one example each to explain the differences
 e. users reporting that application hosted in AKS is experiencing high latency. What's your approach to troubleshoot?
       Check resource usage
       Logs
       Events
       Service or logs related to services
       Network relates issues

8. Azure Devops
a. Project and Organization
b. You have a source code in Repo( GitHub/Azure Repo), how would you approach to setup pipeline to deploy the app on Azure App Service
  	First integrate the Repo in Azure Devops Portal
        We will create Build Pipeline( based on the nature of code)
        We need to choose , if we want to use ms hosted or self hosted VMs)
        We need install/add dependencies if any based on app we deploy( need to discuss this with app team)
        Setup the build pipeline in a way so that we can get Build Artifact
        Setup Release pipeline
	Include and configure settings of the platform ( like  azure app , vm , aks etc)
   	Run the pipeline 
	Look the logs and events generated during the execution

c. How do you provision your resources using Azure Devops?
      First tell about IaC tool ( like terraform)
      Build Pipeline
      Release Pipeline
d. How do you deploy a web app using Azure Devops on AKS
    1. Yaml Manifest file to deploy app on AKS
    2. Service Connection with AKS and Docker Repository or any private repository
    3. Need to know about namespace ( usually it is 'Default' but it can be any specific as well)
    4. Deploy commands "Kubectl apply -f path"




How to be up to date
1.LinkedIn ( follow multiple pages related to Azure, AzureDevops, AKS, Containers, Terraform..)
2. Medium.com( lot of good article on the topics like AKS, terraform, Linux, Devops)
3. Practice 


















